Good afternoon.
So my name is Doug Brooks.
I'm a product manager for
server hardware at Apple.
I'd like to talk to you a little
bit today about deploying Xserve.
Xserve has had an exciting year.
The product is just a
little over one year old.
We've had a major update to the
product back in February and an
addition of the compute node in March.
I'd like to talk to you a little
bit about deploying Xserve.
Before we dive right into Xserve,
we'd like to position a little bit about
how Xserve fits in a broader IT sense.
What's interesting is since
we've launched the Xserve and
actually in our customer research
before we launched Xserve,
we had an opportunity to talk to a
wide range of customers and really
help understand what some of their
challenges are deploying servers.
There were a lot of constant
themes that were shared with us.
Things like, "What's the cost of
operating?" Operational costs
continually under review.
I mean,
the old story of doing more with less
or doing a lot more with a little
bit more is a continual challenge.
Availability of service.
The incredible speed and
worldwide presence of the
internet has made time irrelevant,
which means that opportunities for
downtime are slim and few and in between.
So availability of service in a
variety of ways has been continually
challenging and important.
Deployment time is shorter,
so time to ramp up systems and get
hardware installed and networking
available and services up and
running is needing to be done
again in less and less time.
Systems per administrator increasing.
I'm sure many of you relate to this.
You're having more services,
more servers, more physical boxes being
deployed and needing to manage
more and more of those resources.
And server utilization is higher,
having servers work more, do more,
and be able to maintain
that utilization rate.
Again, a continual challenge.
So, you know, the big question becomes,
well, what does Apple have
to offer in this space?
You know, besides what we think is
a pretty neat one-U box.
And so I think it's important
to understand what we see as our
value proposition in the IT market
to address these specific issues.
So from a cost perspective,
we think we have a great offering
from a hardware and software and
software licensing perspective
with low cost of hardware,
low cost of storage,
and unlimited client licenses built in.
And hopefully you've seen in some of
the other sessions the ability to,
you know,
host more users at a much lower cost,
have more storage available on your
networks is a big value that Apple can
deliver with our server products.
From an availability, well, you know,
we designed these boxes.
From the ground up to be servers.
And so that means
reliability and availability,
both in hardware and software.
And that's, you know,
something that we strive
with these products.
Deployment time.
You know, X service design,
and we'll talk more about it here,
to be easy to deploy, easy to manage,
and be very easy to, you know,
roll these systems out.
And so, again,
that is a key design goal that we build
into these products to provide that.
And finally, server utilization.
Our goal is here to provide power
flexibility at a lower cost.
So tremendous amount
of services built in,
tremendous amount of resources
in the hardware to deliver
upon these requirements.
So what are we going to talk about today?
So quite a number of things.
First of all, I think it's important to
answer the why Xserve question.
So we'll touch on that.
Speeds and feeds.
Xserve has been around,
so we're not going to spend
an incredible amount of time
about the hardware feature set,
but I think it's important to provide
a high-level architectural review.
What we really see are the server value
features in Xserve that we have to offer.
And of course then deployment.
What things can we look at to make
it easy to deploy these boxes,
both regarding physical hardware
type issues and software type issues.
And we'll have a number of
things that we'll touch on there.
And a very important,
get asked this a lot,
is backup strategies.
So we'll touch on the latest and
available backup strategies for
Mac OS X and Mac OS X server.
And finally resources,
where we can point you to for more
information on all of these topics.
So let's start with why Xserve.
So we fundamentally believe that
Xserve is the easiest way to deliver
very powerful network services,
but able to put a tremendous
amount of technology into a 1U
rack mounted server form factor
with incredible storage capability.
And one of the real advantages of
Xserve is the Mac OS X server software.
Having a powerful open source
foundation with very robust server
services and later on top of that,
but with fantastic remote
management capabilities.
Very core to the design.
We think,
and we've offered many of the same
features that people love about Linux.
Open source, great system resources,
but integrated all from one vendor,
one place.
So one click install gets you
all of those features built in,
ready to go.
And again,
powerful open standards based services.
Hopefully you've attended many
of the IT tracks this week,
and it's been a continual theme.
You know, open standards, technologies,
built in, best of breed.
And finally,
more capabilities at less cost.
Really trying to provide a very
value oriented platform with lots
of services and capabilities.
So a quick review of the hardware.
So Xserve, again,
was designed from the ground up to
really be a phenomenal server platform.
This was not a G4 tower stuck on
its side in a smaller enclosure.
It really optimized this platform
to be a phenomenal server platform.
So that means a couple different things.
So first of all,
it's a rack-mounted form factor.
So being able to fit in
industry standard racks.
I like to joke it's an
industry standard rack.
It's not the 20-inch
wide Apple special rack.
So industry standard rack.
One you serve,
that does mean 1.75 inches, not two.
So industry standard,
be able to fit that in
with existing network gear,
existing server gear,
right in your data center environment.
Look at the hardware.
We've packed a tremendous
amount of technology in a
very small amount of space.
So single and dual G4 processors,
dual gigabit Ethernet,
each on their own PCI interface
for bandwidth and throughput.
Four hot plug hard drives using
a hot plug architecture that's
based on ATA hard drives,
which is interesting.
When we first launched Xserve,
a lot of people asked questions about.
However, now,
because so much in the industry
is beginning to utilize
ATA hard drives in this space,
not nearly questioned as much.
And we think we have a great proposition
with performance and storage capability
with the storage architecture in Xserve.
And of course, PCI expandability.
Two 12-inch PCI slots, 6466,
delivering very high performance,
especially when connected to external
devices like our own Xserve RAID,
really leveraging the
PCI performance of Xserve.
What I really wanted to highlight
though is the architecture
of Xserve because again,
this is really optimized to be a server.
And what it really means is a
lot of storage bandwidth and
a lot of networking bandwidth.
And so being able to offer features
like dual gigabit Ethernet,
again, each on their own PCI interface,
which gives us the ability to really
keep those channels moving data very
efficiently without them competing
for bandwidth on the system.
And the storage architecture, again,
on its own PCI bus,
very high-speed PCI bus,
each hard drive has its own
independent ATA controller,
so quad independent ATA controllers.
What that gives us is tremendous
scalability as we add storage.
When we add additional
hard drives to the Xserve,
not only are we adding raw
capacity to the system,
we're adding more storage
bandwidth in the system.
So especially when we look at
high bandwidth applications where
we're striping drives together,
very strong hardware.
So we have a very high
scalability of storage in the box.
And of course,
the ability to go external to, again,
to devices like our Xserver RAID for
additional storage capacity.
And of course we put this
in what we think is a real
phenomenal rack-mounted enclosure.
So again, designed for ease of access.
Xserve slides out on rails,
so that right within
the rack it slides open.
You have access to all
the key components.
Everything is on thumb
screws or standoffs for
quick and easy repairability.
Any component can be
swapped in roughly a minute.
So a very serviceable design.
We couple that with unique programs like
our AppleCare Spare Parts program where
you can have spare kits right on site.
So should you have any
component problems,
they can be swapped out in
sight very quickly and easily.
A lot of flexibility,
and we'll talk more about
the rack-mounting options
that we have with Xserve.
The other real key thing that many
people overlook when we first look
at Xserve is the dedicated hardware
monitoring that's built into the system.
Again,
being a rack-mounted server platform,
these things are designed
to live in a data center,
live in a rack.
You shouldn't have to,
as a system administrator,
spend your time physically
in front of the machine.
We want to minimize that
as much as possible.
And that means being able to provide
health and status information
about the server at all times.
So we actually have hardware built
in on the logic board of the Xserve
that is pulling data about the
entire system and delivering that
to our remote management tools.
So we're monitoring things like
the voltages coming off the
power supplies of each rail,
the speed of the blowers,
temperature in two different
locations of the box,
status and throughput of
the Ethernet interfaces,
status and health of
the hard drive modules.
Matter of fact,
we're doing things like reading
the smart data off the hard drives,
being able to do, you know, look for,
performance and health data and look for
what are called pre-failure analysis,
looking for things that are
indicating future problems.
We then wrap that data all up into
our server monitor management tool,
which has the ability to perform email
notifications and things like that.
So our server monitor tool is a
Cocoa application that can monitor one
or more Xserves in a single interface.
You can see several servers
being monitored here.
You have status indicators
for all the key components.
So green lights are good
Yellow is a warning condition.
Red is an error condition.
And you can drill into any of
those components with one click
to get detailed information.
If you want to know the exact
temperature of the top unit in your rack,
very easy to do that.
What's really interesting about
this tool is that the data,
hopefully some of you had the
opportunity to go to some of the
Mac OS X server sessions where they
talked about the management protocol.
We use the same architecture
with server monitor.
This application is actually just
reading XML data and presenting
it to you in a GUI interface.
But that XML data is
available on the system.
We've actually had customers be
able to extract that data and use
that in their own monitoring tools.
And so that's been very
handy from that perspective,
looking for more automated, you know,
scriptable analysis of this information.
So just a review of the major
Xserve configurations to
highlight the new compute node.
We actually currently offer three
configurations of our Xserve.
So the first two are our, quote unquote,
"server configuration,"
single and dual processor,
single hard drive up to 720
gigabytes of internal storage,
CD-ROM, VGA standard, and of course,
Mac OS X server unlimited client license.
To highlight,
the new compute node that we
introduced in the March timeframe
is a machine specifically optimized
for compute intensive tasks.
This is primarily in response to customer
requests for an Xserve streamline
for things like compute clustering.
And again, if you're in the compute
clustering session,
you saw some of those units
in a demo up on stage.
So this machine is streamlined for that.
Two processors, single hard drive,
single gigabit Ethernet,
the onboard Ethernet, no video,
no CD-ROM, because you don't want one of
those in every single unit.
And also much lower price than the
standard dual processor configuration.
What's interesting about this
unit is while we targeted it
for compute clustering tasks,
it's also been very popular in any kind
of computational intense application.
It's been very popular for things like
web application servers where you don't
need a lot of storage on the node.
It's getting data from
external databases or things.
And so it's been very interesting in
those kind of deployments as well.
[Transcript missing]
So a couple of suggestions
and recommendations based
on feedback and experience.
First and foremost, just a reminder,
Xserve RAID, being a little bigger unit,
a little heavier unit,
is designed exclusively
for four-post racks.
It has quite an extensive mounting range,
but it's important that it
gets put into a four-post rack.
And so if you're planning on adding
one or deploying them together,
start there.
Very important.
A little suggestion,
people are deploying several of these.
Bottom-up works better than top-down.
I like to suggest letting
gravity do some work for you.
It's real important to get the
units in nice and squarely,
and if you let gravity just take
care of the positioning for you,
they stack up very nicely.
Plus, once you get the first one in,
the rest go in quite easily.
So a little suggestion there.
With the slot load Xserve,
we also provided a installation template.
It's actually a metal bar
with some holes in it,
and we highly recommend you use
this for your final installation
of the lid in the unit.
What happens is you place this onto,
when you attach the lid into the rack,
you place the bracket on,
and you use that as you tighten
the screws into the rack.
What happens is because the lid is
what you actually mount in the rack,
if you over-tighten or
under-tighten the screws,
the lid can be slightly
deformed in or out,
making either very difficult to tighten
or very difficult to tighten the screws.
So it's a great idea to
have that in your rack.
And sometimes it can be
actually a little loose,
and there can be too
much play in the rails.
And so this bracket was designed
to make sure everything's perfect,
and with that bracket being used,
tighten the screws in,
and the unit slides
right in just perfectly.
And so that is a little
suggestion that we've added
with the new slot load Xserve.
Final little thing is that
with the slot load Xserve,
we've added a CD protector
bracket to the slot load Xserve.
And we've added a new slot load CD bay.
And we really recommend you keep
that protector on during the
entire installation process.
I know a lot of the first things
people want to do is pull it off
and look at the fascia of the unit.
But it's best if that be left on.
It prevents any deformation
in the fascia on where the
sleety goes into the machine.
If it's torqued too much,
you'll see a slight bend in that unit.
It's cosmetic.
It doesn't affect the CD going in or out.
But we like to make them look
as nice as possible on the rack,
and so that protector provides
that strength during installation.
So I'm going to talk a little bit about
power and environmental requirements.
We have a nice advantage with the
PowerPC G4 processor in that the power
requirements and heat output compared
to other competing processors in the
1U form factor tend to be much lower.
And so I wanted to
highlight that for you here.
The power supply is actually
rated for the worst possible
condition with an Xserve.
So we actually rate the
power supply at 3.6 amps,
345 watts.
That includes margin on top of that.
In reality, it's pretty challenging to,
on a single processor system,
to use more than about 200 watts in the
system for most typical configurations.
And in the dual processor,
pretty challenging to
use more than 350 watts.
So this provides some additional
guidelines when you're actually planning,
for example, UPS deployment on the
loads that are needed.
We actually document specific
configurations and power and
thermal output requirements
in our knowledge base.
So there's actually,
if you go into the KBase,
kbase.info.apple.com,
search on Xserve and BTU,
you'll find these specs actually
fleshed out in a lot more detail.
We do several different kinds of
configurations and give you that as
examples for power and heat output.
And that gives you some
scaling guidelines there
based on room requirements.
You know, obviously one of the challenges
is that when you have a lot
of these in a small space,
you want to make sure that the
room stays within operational
temperatures to prevent overheating.
Now, we do have system monitors
tracking temperatures,
and you'll get alerts if
the systems get too warm.
But, you know,
proper environmentals is important
for any kind of server environment.
So just what does this
translate into UPS loads?
I wanted to give you some examples.
These are two common APC UPSs,
a 1U-1000 UPS,
ideal for one or two Xserves,
and then a bigger APC 3U-3000
UPS that can handle several Xserves.
So just to give you some guidelines,
the single 1U UPS give you 30 minutes
of power to a typical configured Xserve.
That would be a dual
processing sensor Xserve.
And around 15 minutes of kind
of the worst case scenario,
fully loaded, fully maxed out Xserve.
For comparison,
the bigger APC UPS for 6Xserves
of typical configuration will give
you around 15 minutes of power.
And for a fully loaded
worst case scenario,
around five minutes of power.
So still plenty of time to do
proper shutdown procedures.
Worth noting also that APC has
software to connect to the APC.
these UPSs for proper shutdown behavior.
Networking.
So, you know, networking is critical
in a server environment,
and of course that's one of the main
reasons why we provided dual gigabit
Ethernet out of the back of the machine.
So, Xserve standard configurations
come with dual gigabit Ethernet,
one built in on the logic board
and one in our AGP PCI combo slot.
So, one of the big advantages of the
Xserve in that configuration is
that we have this combo slot.
It's really our third PCI slot.
And this can take either a 4X
high-performance AGP video card or the
way we configure it for standard server
configurations is a PCI Ethernet card.
And so that gives you a
second high-performance copper
interconnect for gigabit Ethernet.
The PCI Ethernet card actually
is a slightly superior card
from a performance standpoint.
We found it to be about 10
to 15% in performance greater
than the onboard Ethernet.
And what's interesting is that
it's a little bit more powerful
than the onboard Ethernet.
Interesting is that that is the
actual Ethernet card we used
in some of the benchmarking.
For example,
that set the web bench record
that we did when we benchmarked
the slot load Xserves.
So, very strong performance
in that Ethernet card,
and we tend to recommend people
use that as their primary
interface for serving clients.
A little note though,
our remote setup software,
and we'll talk more
about that in a minute,
prefers or expects to
use built-in Ethernet.
Okay, so we recommend what you do
is use the Ethernet card.
We recommend what you do is use
the built-in Ethernet to bring
the system up and configure it
and use the PCI Ethernet as your
primary interface for your services.
We've got a lot of questions
about people looking for optical
cards who want to connect optical
gigabit Ethernet to the system.
There are actually several
third-party solutions.
Apple doesn't offer a
card off of our store,
but there are several key
third-party solutions in this
space to provide that solution.
The first one is the 1000SX Giganix card.
I just recently discovered a
vendor who has Mac OS X drivers.
3M has a line of optical cards called
Volition that have Mac OS X drivers.
And so that has two optical
gigabit Ethernet solutions.
And finally, I get asked this a lot,
with the slot-loading Xserve,
the software that we ship,
Mac OS X server 1024,
had a new feature in it called IPX.
And so when you added
that to your Xserve,
a new EN2 would often show up in the
system preferences pane for Ethernet.
And that's actually IP over FireWire.
Matter of fact, in Panther Server,
it actually will show up named
IP over FireWire to make it a
little more obvious what that is.
Had a lot of people wonder,
did their server suddenly
grow a new Ethernet interface?
So this is really exciting.
IP over FireWire,
especially on the slot-loading Xserve.
With having dual 800 megabit
FireWire on the back,
we can use this as an IP interface.
Matter of fact,
we can chain down the rack with
very inexpensive FireWire 9-pin to
9-pin cables and connect a bunch
of Xsers over IP over FireWire.
This gives us an ideal third
interface for things like management,
replications, and IP failover.
We'll actually talk about its use
in IP failover in a little bit.
Think of it as a built-in interface
that you can now very easily
use for those environments,
and it's very handy for that.
It delivers very good performance
and just works like an Ethernet
interface from that perspective.
One of the benefits here is that it
lets you keep your high-performance
copper gigabit Ethernet ports available
to serve clients on your network
and use this as a back channel for
management and things like that.
One thing I did want to mention with
IP over FireWire is that when you have
those machines connected together,
you want to be very careful
about plugging other devices in.
So one of the things,
the challenges is that now that those
machines are connected together,
their FireWire bus is now
shared across those machines.
And one of the great things about Xserve
is we have a FireWire port on the front.
I like to brag with our
friends in Power Mac,
we were the first ones to put the
FireWire on the front of the machine.
So you put that iPod in
and plug it into the front,
you actually have all the machines that
are connected with that FireWire bus,
we'll see it concurrently.
And so it could actually
mount on several machines,
which would be less than desirable.
So just something to be considering
when you are using IP over FireWire,
to be very careful plugging
in additional devices,
non-IP over FireWire type devices,
into that FireWire bus,
because it is a shared bus.
SNMP, one of the features that Xserve
introduced in Mac OS X Server,
actually with the original
Xserve with 10.1.5,
is SNMP capability.
And this has been built in since then,
and is a great capability.
Really wanted to call out and highlight
because we have a lot of customers in
heterogeneous environments who want
to take advantage of SNMP monitoring
and plug it into tools like OpenView or
Intermapper or some of the neon tools
that we bundle on the slot load Xserve.
And this is built in,
and the only challenge is that
it's deactivated by default.
And so to turn it on,
you actually have to add one
line into etsy host config and
just say SNMP server equals yes.
And that will activate the SNMP stack,
and it will start up
automatically from then on out.
It's worth noting that in Jaguar,
SNMP... SNMP server equals no
is not in the default script.
You actually have to
add it as a new line.
A lot of people look,
can I just change no to yes?
It's actually not in
the host config script.
You have to go in and add it.
And then, of course, highly recommend you
run the SNMP conf tool,
which actually allows you to plug
in system-specific information,
you know, host name, contact information,
email address, all the things,
so that when you connect to it over SNMP,
you get some meaningful information
beyond network statistics and other
valuable information that SNMP has.
And that's what SNMP provides back.
If you're not familiar with
SNMP or configuring it,
we have... there are
great man pages built in.
Our implementation of SNMP is
actually based on NetSNMP.
And so there's a great resource,
of course, the NetSNMP web page that I'd
point you to for more information
about specifics about the MIBs
and configuration above and beyond
what we provide in the man pages.
I wanted to talk now about
software installation.
One of the great things about
Mac OS X Server on Xserve is
we have a variety of ways to
configure the machines and have,
because of the headless nature
of rack-mounted servers,
have a lot of new tools that
we've built for Xserve and other
environments to make it easy to
deploy these machines in the rack.
Our goal is that if you want to hook
up a monitor and keyboard to an Xserve,
great, go ahead.
It should work just
like you would expect.
But we want to make it really
easy to take this Xserve
brand new out of the box,
rack it, power it up,
and just configure it remotely,
never ever having to connect a
monitor and keyboard and make that
a really great user experience.
And we think we've done that,
so I wanted to highlight the
various methods of configuring
the software on Xserve.
Before I get into that,
I wanted to highlight a new feature
that was in the slot load Xserve that
we introduced with the slot load Xserve,
which we call our front panel boot menu.
On the original Xserve,
the system identifier button,
the button with the triangle on it,
when you powered up the
machine and held that button,
it was like holding down
the C key on your keyboard.
It forced the machine
to boot off the CD-ROM,
and that was great for this
same kind of operations.
But what we found out is that a
lot of people wanted to do some of
the other things that you could do.
And so we've actually added
more features in the new slot
load Xserve to provide this.
And what we've actually implemented
is by using the light show,
the two rows of eight blue LEDs and
the button on the front is implemented
a very simple boot menu on the Xserve.
So what you do is when
you power up the machine,
you hold down that same system
identifier button for a couple seconds,
and what it will do is
it will actually flash.
And you'll get a single
blue LED that will count.
And you'll see that it will
come out across the eight LEDs.
And now when you press the
system identifier button,
it will indicate those LEDs from one
to eight from the right to the left,
is how you count that.
And each LED then has a special meaning.
And when you've selected the
number LED that you're looking for,
you then hold down the system
identifier button for a few seconds.
You'll see the indicator
count up and down.
And when you release it,
it will go ahead and follow that.
And so what we have now is seven
commands that can be implemented right
on the front of the Xserve without any
additional keyboard or other interaction.
Obviously, the first one is boot from CD.
So you press that.
If there's a CD in the drive,
it will eject it very handy.
And when you put a CD in,
it will now attempt to boot from
that CD if it's a bootable CD.
The second one is like
holding down the N key.
It's the net boot command.
Net boot,
and we'll touch on this a little bit.
Net boot is a great way.
It's a great way to mass deploy servers.
You can use it for network configuration,
have it image the machine automatically,
or in cluster environments,
you might choose to net boot the entire
cluster for a single system image.
So you can do net boot right
from the front of the machine.
Again, no keyboard needed.
The third light indicates boot
from the internal hard drive.
And so what it will do is
it will start in bay one,
which is the leftmost hard drive,
and attempt to boot from that,
and then try to boot from drive two,
three, and four.
So it will basically search the internal
drive base for a viable boot hard drive.
If you select option number four,
it will actually attempt to boot from
a device other than the built-in device
that you've already chosen previously.
So if you want to actually troubleshoot
your built-in system boot drive,
and you want to instead boot off an
iPod or a FireWire drive or something,
you can select this option.
It will scan and boot from the first
available device that it finds.
It's also worth noting,
because I don't think I mentioned
it elsewhere in the slides,
you can actually boot
off of our Xserve RAID.
We actually have people
who are doing that,
so very handy to be able to
boot off a fiber channel.
Option number five, it turns the Xserve
into target disk mode.
Now this is extremely,
extremely powerful.
We'll talk more about this in a second.
With target disk mode,
it basically turns the Xserve
temporarily into a FireWire hard drive.
And you can plug that into your
power book and mount those hard
drives right over FireWire like it
was a little FireWire hard drive.
What's unique about the implementation
on Xserve is that we've actually allowed
it to mount all four hard drive bays.
OK, so you can have four hard drive bays.
And rather than just showing drive zero,
or bay one, I should say,
it will mount all the available
drives out through FireWire.
Option number six, of course,
is the Zap the PRAM magic command.
And finally,
option number seven is the equivalent
of booting into open firmware.
This is very powerful for people who want
to kind of get under the hood and give
very specific commands to the firmware.
We've also added some
intelligence to this.
If you don't have a keyboard plugged in,
it automatically activates the
serial port on the back as a console.
So you can go right in
through the serial port,
tell it to boot off of a specific
device or do specific troubleshooting.
And finally, option number seven is the
Xserve Xserve software.
This is a very simple and easy to
use software that you might want
to do at the open firmware level,
which is fortunately very, very rare,
but when you want to do it,
it's very easy to activate that.
So I wanted to highlight that
because we'll use that in context
of some of these examples.
So I want to take the first
and easiest implementation
of deploying Xserve software,
which is the easy
plug-in-the-keyboard-and-mouse method.
And this works just
like you would expect.
Plug it in, boot from the CD, install it,
off you go,
just like you would any other machine.
Very simple, very straightforward.
When you have the ability
to have a keyboard and mouse
handy to be plugged in.
What's also interesting about
this approach is using the
target disk mode function,
we can install using the Xserve really
like it was a target hard drive.
So this is really great.
You can take your PowerBook,
turn your Xserve into a hard drive,
plug it in,
install from your PowerBook onto
the Xserve like it was a boot drive,
and actually install
Mac OS X Server through that method.
And then you can use the
Xserve as your keyboard.
So you can use the PowerBook or other
FireWire-capable Macintosh system
as your screen and keyboard and
actually host processor at that time.
So a very,
very easy way to deploy and reimage and
manipulate the software on your Xserve.
And then you can clone one machine
configuration to another over FireWire,
rather trivially with
FireWire target disk mode.
So this is a really handy feature
you can use in these environments.
The next thing I wanted to talk
about is remote configuration
user server assistant.
This was a specific feature we added
to support headless installation
of the software for Xserve,
but yet provide a really simplified
and powerful user experience.
So it still provides a
graphical user interface.
The way this works is that you, again,
using the front panel mode,
can boot the system from the
install CD that comes with Xserve.
You boot that up,
and if you've ever wondered why it
takes a little bit longer to boot
Mac OS X server CDs on the Xserve,
it's because it's creating
this remote hosting capability.
What it's actually doing
is booting the environment,
making networking available,
and then what you do is run a
utility called server assistant.
So what you do is you run a
utility called server assistant
that you run on a remote host,
PowerBook, for example,
that's plugged into the
network on the same subnet.
You find that Xserve remotely using
a rendezvous-type technology and then
configure the system through the same
server assistant you would see as
if you were on the machine locally.
To give you an idea of
what this looks like,
what you do is this is from a client
machine you run on your PowerBook,
the server assistant,
and it comes up and asks
you what you want to do.
Do you want to configure?
So you can configure a remote
machine or install a server or
reinstall the server software.
So you can actually do a complete
reinstallation in a headless environment.
So in this case,
we'll reinstall or install
Mac OS X server software.
It will then scan your
local subnet using,
again, the same protocol as rendezvous,
looking for machines on that subnet.
And it will list their
current IP address,
their MAC address,
so you can validate the exact
hardware port that you're talking to
and what it thinks its host name is.
And these will refresh.
You might see one.
You might see a dozen servers,
depending on how many are
in configuration mode.
And I'm going to stress that this
is only available when it's in
this booted configuration mode.
This isn't something that you can
connect to to an X server at any time,
obviously for security reasons.
You don't want to make it easy for
anyone to reinstall your server software.
So once you find this machine
that you're looking for,
you click on it, continue,
and it will prompt you for a password.
And because the machine's in
a remote configuration mode,
it's not going to be able to do that.
So once you find this machine
in a remote configuration mode,
the machine could be in an unknown state.
What we've decided to use as the
authentication is actually the
hardware serial number of the machine.
So you actually use the first eight
digits of the hardware serial number.
And that's actually why we put the
serial number on the back of the machine
and on the front inside of the machine.
If you just slide open the
X server about two inches,
you'll see a little printed serial
number tag on the inside of the
machine as well as on the back,
making it very easy to get
access to that information.
So you enter the first eight digits.
And then you click on it.
And then you click on the
serial number to authenticate.
It will continue,
and you then continue through the
assistant just like you would locally,
you know, language, boot device,
option packs you want installed,
ask you for your IP address,
all the questions you would answer
normally now are being done remotely.
It's sending those remote commands over
to the machine in an encrypted fashion,
basically using an SSH type
encrypted communication session.
The machine will configure itself,
reboot,
and then it's in exactly a known state.
That you can log into as the
administrator with server
administration tools and configure
your services from there on out.
So very,
very powerful and simple user interface
to do this remote server assistant mode.
The other approach I wanted to talk
about briefly is network install.
So one of the abilities you have to do,
and this is really handy when
you're deploying a large number
of Xserves in a given environment,
is to use the network
install capabilities that's
built into Mac OS X server.
So basically using a server as
kind of a hosting server that can
host and install environment for
other machines on the network.
So you can create a disk
image using the network image
utility that's in 10.2 server.
We highly recommend if you're
doing a server install that you
use version 10.2.5 or later,
the network image utility that
ships with 10.2.5 or later.
Note that the system software that
you're installing on the machine
doesn't have to be necessarily Xserve.
You can use the network image
utility that's in 10.2.5 or later.
But the utility that creates
the disk image needs to be.
And there are actually some
specific server things that were
addressed in 10.2.5 version.
What it will do is when
you run this utility,
it will actually ask you
for the server software CD.
You place that in the machine,
and off you go to create that image.
You then can netboot that off,
and it's just like booting from CD and
have that administration capability.
So here's a look at the
actual utility itself,
being able to create an install image.
It will create that image,
and off you go.
You can make that your netboot
network image that's available.
The last thing I wanted to talk
about is probably one of the most
powerful tools for Xserve deployment,
which is a command line tool called ASR.
This is a tool that allows you to
basically take an image of a server
that can be completely configured
and blast it onto other machines.
It's very fast, very efficient,
and can be very flexible in
the way you use this machine.
So you literally can
take a known boot image,
slap it in one bay of an Xserve,
take a blank drive in the
other bay of the image,
and then you can get that image.
Pull up terminal, type in ASR, you know,
target, source volume, target volume,
some optional flags,
depending on if you want to use them.
Verbose options and erasable
options are highly recommended.
And off you go.
It will clone that drive that's
now a perfectly bootable drive.
You can stick in another Xserve and bring
up in a completely known environment.
Now, what's really amazing about ASR is
that you have the ability to host
these disk images that become the,
the image that you're blasting
onto a server from a web server.
So imagine this.
You can create a pristine
image of every server,
type of server that you
have in your environment.
This is the web server.
This is the DNS server.
This is the file server.
Create a disk image of it,
whether it be for backup or
for replication purposes.
Put that image up on a web server,
and using the HTTP URL to that
disk image as the source image,
blast that from a web server onto a,
onto a hard drive.
Very, very amazing capability.
Very fast, very efficient.
The last thing I wanted to mention
is that there are actually some
unique third-party products
coming that help this environment.
This is a prototype of a product that
a company called Xtreme Mac is working
on and will be shipping shortly.
This is an Apple Drive module device
that has FireWire on the back.
You'll be able to take this device,
plug it into a PowerBook, a PowerMac,
and read and write to
Apple Drive modules for configuration.
Take this out, stick it in an Xserve,
and a very easy way to deploy
images and software onto an Xserve
drive from another host machine.
Look forward to products like that
providing new options for you as well.
So one of the other things
I wanted to talk about,
kind of moving topics here,
is availability.
So Mac OS Xserver has a unique
architecture in X2 server called
IP failover that provides a
way to have two servers kind of
provide a master/slave failover
environment for availability.
And this is built into a Jaguar server.
It requires an IP connection be connected
between a private IP connection between
two servers for use as a heartbeat.
So what happens is we have two
servers on a common private network
that are passing a heartbeat
between the two of them saying,
you know, I'm alive, are you alive?
And this is ideal for
using IP over FireWire.
Again, a small FireWire cable between
two servers with IP over FireWire
gives you the perfect connection
for this kind of environment.
It has the ability to failover.
So one server goes out,
the other machine takes over,
and then failback.
So when the other machine comes back up,
have it resolve its services back.
And this is ideal out of
the box for static services,
things like QuickTime streaming,
web services, DNS,
where the data behind the service
doesn't change on a frequent basis.
So it's not replicating data.
And we'll talk about strategies
for that in a minute.
So I just wanted to give you a graphical
environment of what this looks like.
So we have two servers.
And what's important about this is that
the secondary server doesn't have to be
a server just sitting idle doing nothing,
that just is waiting for
the primary server to fail.
Both servers can be actively
serving other services.
And what we have here are machines
that have a minimum of two Ethernet
interfaces or IP over FireWire.
Each one has its own unique public
interface and public IP address.
Here the primary server is 1001.1.
And the secondary server is 1001.2.
And then they have a private interface.
Again, this could be Ethernet or
IP over FireWire that they use
to communicate privately between
them for heartbeat information.
In this case, it's the 192 address,
is .1 and .2.
And so these machines are sending, again,
live messages between the two machines.
Now, let's get into a situation
where the primary server,
for any number of reasons, dies,
whether it be the network
link or hardware failure.
The machine then would stop
sending heartbeat messages
to the secondary server.
At that point, the secondary server,
using the IP failover ability,
would kick off a series of scripts
that would determine the specific
actions that would happen.
In this case, you know,
our primary server is a web server.
Our secondary is a streaming server.
What we might choose to do here is,
for example, fire up the web server
on the secondary server.
And what it will do is it will
add -- it will take over the
IP address of the primary server,
becoming its presence on the network.
So in this case,
we're keeping both services alive,
both web services and streaming services.
And because the IP address
is assigned to those,
continuing to be alive,
the clients out on the network
would see no loss in services.
Those -- because this is
completely script-driven,
though, you have the ability to
tune the exact behavior.
You might decide the web services of high
transactional ability and decide that
you really need to kill off the streaming
server or maybe just nice it down to a
much lower priority because these are
all scripts that determine this behavior.
You have that ability to
determine that exact behavior.
Now as I mentioned,
IP failover does not replicate data.
So obviously the service needs to
be able to fire up and run that
service in the proper configuration.
So you need to have data staged there
and configuration files staged there for
the situations when those get fired off.
And obviously you can use tools like
rsync as just one example to replicate
that data between the two services.
So this can be very powerful
for the appropriate services.
Obviously this architecture is not
ideal for things like file services that
have heavy data requirements behind it.
You can imagine if it's my
home directory server and
I failover to a secondary server,
if my home directory isn't there,
it's not good to me that the
server is still available.
It's the data behind it that's important.
So this is really ideal for things like
web services and streaming services.
as two examples.
Again, I want to stress that
these are script driven,
so you have complete flexibility over
the exact behaviors of what happens.
We actually provide sample scripts,
which you then can customize and
tune to your specific environment.
It also has the ability to send
email notifications and things
like that so that you know when
you're in this kind of situation.
The other thing I didn't
go into in much detail,
but there are also corresponding
scripts that determine what happens
when the primary server comes back up.
So we fail back and bring the
original services up as expected.
I also want to stress
that for availability,
IP failover isn't the only strategy.
Many applications have their own
architecture for IP failover,
or for high-availability, really.
And that's the best way
to handle availability,
because you can determine that
on an application-specific basis.
Some examples are Stalkers
CommuniGate have an excellent two-node
clustered version that provides
a high-availability mail server.
And again,
having application-level awareness is
much better than a generic service,
and that's an excellent
solution for those environments.
IP failover also isn't the only
way to achieve availability.
Using external load balancers for
things like multiple web servers that
can take a server out of the loop when
a server fails is also another option.
And I also wanted to mention a
new third-party option from a
fiber channel storage perspective.
One of the questions
I get asked a lot is,
well, if we could put our storage out on,
say, an Xserve RAID,
an external storage device,
could we have that storage move
over to the second server so that
my home directories do follow me if
I failover to a secondary server?
Obviously,
this requires the ability to map the
storage from one machine to another.
And while we don't provide that
functionality out of the box,
a company called Astera has
some new drivers for their
fiber channel cards that have
scriptable capabilities to do this.
So this is brand new.
I haven't tested it yet,
but it looks like a promising
solution that could really complement
a IP failover configuration.
[Transcript missing]
So this is a really growing
trend and for large databases,
large data sets,
this is a very viable way to do backup.
So just to finish up,
the last thing I wanted to highlight
were some what I'll consider
essential commands from a command
line perspective that can complement
a Xserve deployment scenario.
I get asked all the time, you know,
I'm coming from another
Unix platform and,
you know,
if config doesn't always work the
way I expect it to on Mac OS X,
or how do I do this command on Mac OS X?
So I wanted to really highlight
some of the commands that are
unique to Mac OS X but give
you very powerful capabilities.
First of all, there's two very powerful
system configuration tools,
the most important being network setup.
Everything you can do in the network
preference pane in Mac OS X you
can do through scripting or through
command line in network setup.
You can turn on and off interfaces,
reorder them, set them to DHCP,
set them to static IP addresses,
get what current values are set.
It's a very, very powerful tool.
So rather than if config,
make sure you look up the
man page for network setup.
And actually if you just type
network setup at the command line,
it will spit back all of its options.
We have a similar tool called system
setup that gives you access to a lot
of the preference type information,
system name, date and time,
network time server, on and on and on.
System management tools.
One of the ones I find most valuable
are the Disk Utility command.
Disk Utility is the command line
equivalent of Disk Utility.app.
It lets you do things
like create RAID sets,
destroy RAID sets, rebuild RAID sets,
partition disks, format disks.
Very, very handy for configuration.
Also great because you can script
this very powerfully and so completely
automate a specific setup requirement.
We have a number of tools for
things like directory services,
DS import/export, to be able to batch
import users in and out.
Create home directory.
Until you log in from the GUI,
your home directory isn't created.
And so you can force it to be created
using this command line option.
Obviously, the SNMP configuration tool
and Disk-to-Base Monitor is a
background daemon that will monitor
disk utilization on the server.
And if you do a man-management,
you can do that.
You can see it has some very
powerful capabilities for learning
you about disk operations.
Finally, software update,
command line software
update to be able to,
from SSH,
update to the latest versions of
software through software update.
Disk Key Finder is an
interesting little utility.
It's a utility that will return the
bay number of the drive in your Xserve.
So if you ever want to configure
from a path name into a bay 1,
bay 2, bay 3, bay 4,
this little utility will do that,
very handy for scripts.
And of course there's a command
line installer to be able to install
packages of the command line.
And finally the ASR command
we referenced earlier.
So just to wrap up this session,
we're running very
close out of time here.
The reality is that with IT being
faced with continual challenges,
being able to deploy
machines and services,
we really feel that with Xserve and
Mac OS X Server and Xserve RAID,
we can simplify server deployment,
provide faster services at lower
costs with much easier system
administration experience.
Now there's been a lot of
talk about Panther Server over
the course of this week.
I really just wanted to highlight a
few quick features that are unique,
we think will be very handy
for Xserve deployments.
A number of unique features,
one of the most important ones
being the automatic setup feature.
So we can take the setup experience
and automate it even further than
what we've talked about today.
Finally, just to wrap up,
I wanted to point you
to some other sessions.
Many of these were done
earlier in the week,
so if you weren't able to attend them,
I encourage you to watch the
videos when they're available.
Highlight the Deploying Xserve
RAID session that's tomorrow afternoon.
Talk more in-depth about the
storage side of our server products.
I also wanted to highlight some of
the developer and Core OS applications
that I think are important from
a system administrator side.
Again, a lot of these,
actually all of these
happened earlier this week,
but again,
video opportunities for replay.
And finally, an invitation.
Welcome feedback, questions,
and comments.
And my email address is here, d.brooks.
Always welcome your feedback
on Xserve and your particular
deployments and scenarios.
Finally, from a developer perspective,
Skip Levins is our server
technology evangelist,
and his email is up there from a
developer side with specific development
level questions and resources.
Finally, some key references.
We have put a tremendous amount of effort
into putting more resources available
on the Xserve and server web pages.
We have a lot of resources there and
we'll continue to grow those over time.
Have apple.com/server as
kind of the one-stop shopping
point for that location.
A very, very valuable mailing list that
Apple hosts on our listservs is
the Mac OS X server mailing list.